# Weather-Journal App Project

## Introduction
The Aim of this project is to provide easy portal to get the temperature from the website: http://www.openweathermap.org
Also you can easly enter the Zip Code for the city you want to check its temperature in Celisus degree.

Just by Clicking on generate after entering the Zip Code, you will know the temperature in a matter of milliseconds, thanks to the backend server of Node.js.

## Tools
to run the server on the local environment, please install the following:
- Node.js
- express
- bodyparser
- cors
Kindly check all the dependencies mentioned on package.json and install them prior to running the server.

## References
### Server Side: 
- requiring the needed libraries : express, cors, body-parser and Project Environment Setup was done as explained in Lesson 2: Node & Express Environment with additon from my side by adding hostname. (MDN)
- APP API Endpoint: ProjectData is created on the starter code by Udacity
- GET Route and POST Route are adopted from the examples as explained in Lesson 3: HTTP Requests and Routes.
- The .push method for the created array was explained by the FWD Tutor on project webinar.

 ## Client Side:
 - Functions and architecture of app.js built on the commentsOnlyJS file provided by Udacity
 - personal API Key generated by creating my own credentials on OpenWeatherMap.com
 - selectButton selected by getElementById() method, addEventListener(), from JavaScript & the DOM part and rubric criteria#12
 - Integrating OpenWeatherMap API was done by fetch() as explained on Lesson 4: Asynchronous JS, 8. Async Fetch with Web APIs Demo
 - Post Route section was followed and introduced after applying and understanding the boilerplate code mentioned on Understanding Server & Client Side Code Lesson on Lesson 3: HTTP Requests and Routes.
 - updateUI() section was done by understanding Updating UI Elements Demo lesson on Lesson 4:Asynchronous JS.

## Overview
This project requires you to create an asynchronous web app that uses Web API and user data to dynamically update the UI. 

## Instructions
This will require modifying the `server.js` file and the `website/app.js` file. You can see `index.html` for element references, and once you are finished with the project steps, you can use `style.css` to style your application to customized perfection.

## Extras
If you are interested in testing your code as you go, you can use `tests.js` as a template for writing and running some basic tests for your code.


